–
The Web IDE editor makes it faster and easier to contribute changes to your projects by providing an advanced editor with commit staging.

File finder
Introduced in GitLab Free 10.8.

The file finder allows you to quickly open files in the current branch by searching for fragments of the file path. 
The file finder is launched using the keyboard shortcut Command+p, Control+p, or t (when editor is not in focus).
Type the filename or file path fragments to start seeing results.

Command palette
You can see all available commands for manipulating editor content by pressing the F1 key when the editor is in focus. 
After that, the editor displays a complete list of available commands for manipulating editor content. 
The editor supports commands for multi-cursor editing, code block folding, commenting, searching and replacing, 
navigating editor warnings and suggestions, and more.

Some commands have a keyboard shortcut assigned to them. The command palette displays this shortcut next to each command.
You can use this shortcut to invoke the command without having to select it in the command palette.

Syntax highlighting

As expected from an IDE, syntax highlighting for many languages in the Web IDE makes your direct editing even easier.

The Web IDE currently provides:

Basic syntax colorization for a variety of programming, scripting and markup languages such as XML, PHP, C#, C++, Markdown, Java, VB, Batch, Python, Ruby, and Objective-C.
IntelliSense and validation support (displaying errors and warnings, providing smart completions, formatting, and outlining) for some languages. 
For example: TypeScript, JavaScript, CSS, LESS, SCSS, JSON, and HTML.
Because the Web IDE is based on the Monaco Editor, you can find a more complete list of supported languages in the Monaco languages repository. 
Under the hood, Monaco uses the Monarch library for syntax highlighting.

If you are missing Syntax Highlighting support for any language, we prepared a short guide on how to add support for a missing language Syntax Highligh
Highlight lines
WebIDE is built with the Web Editor. This enables WebIDE to share the same core features for highlighting and linking to particular lines in the edited files described for the Web Editor.

Schema based validation

Version history
The Web IDE provides validation support for certain JSON and YAML files using schemas based on the JSON Schema Store.

Predefined schemas
The Web IDE has validation for certain files built in. This feature is only supported for the *.gitlab-ci.yml files.

Enable or disable validation based on predefined schemas ALL TIERSSELF-MANAGED
Validation based on predefined schemas is under development and not ready for production use.
It is deployed behind a feature flag that is disabled by default for self-managed instances,
GitLab administrators with access to the GitLab Rails console can enable it for your instance.

To enable it:
Feature.enable(:schema_linting)
Feature.disable(:schema_linting)

schemas:
  - uri: https://json.schemastore.org/package
    match:
      - package.json
  - uri: https://somewebsite.com/first/raw/url
    match:
      - data/release_posts/unreleased/*.{yml,yaml}
  - uri: https://somewebsite.com/second/raw/url
    match:
      - "*.meta.json"
      
      

Each schema entry supports two properties:

uri: please provide an absolute URL for the schema definition file here. The schema from this URL is loaded when a matching file is open.
match: a list of matching paths or glob expressions. If a schema matches a particular path pattern, it is applied to that file.
Please enclose the pattern in quotes if it begins with an asterisk (*), it’s be applied to that file.
If a pattern begins with an asterisk (*), enclose it in quotation marks. Otherwise, the configuration file is not valid YAML.
Configure the Web IDE

The Web IDE supports configuration of certain editor settings by using .editorconfig files. When opening a file, the Web IDE looks for a file named .editorconfig in the current directory and all parent directories. If a configuration file is found and has settings that match the file’s path, these settings are enforced on the opened file.

The Web IDE currently supports the following .editorconfig settings:

indent_style
indent_size
end_of_line
trim_trailing_whitespace
tab_width
insert_final_newline
Commit changes

Reviewing changes
Before you commit your changes, you can compare them with the previous commit by switching to the review mode or selecting the file from the list of changes.

An additional review mode is available when you open a merge request, which shows you a preview of the merge request diff if you commit your changes.

View CI job logs

You can use the Web IDE to quickly fix failing tests by opening the branch or merge request in the Web IDE and opening the logs of the failed job. You can access the status of all jobs for the most recent pipeline and job traces for the current commit by clicking the Pipelines button in the top right.

The pipeline status is also shown at all times in the status bar in the bottom left.

Switching merge requests

To switch between your authored and assigned merge requests, click the dropdown in the top of the sidebar to open a list of merge requests.
You need to commit or discard all your changes before switching to a different merge request.


Switching branches
Introduced in GitLab Free 11.2.

To switch between branches of the current project repository, click the dropdown in the top of the sidebar to open a list of branches.
You need to commit or discard all your changes before switching to a different branch.

Markdown editing
