GitLab provides two types of snippets:

Personal snippets: Created independent of any project. You can set a visibility level for your snippet: public, internal, or private.
Project snippets: Always related to a specific project. Project snippets can be visible publicly or to only group members

Create snippets
You can create snippets in multiple ways, depending on whether you want to create a personal or project snippet:

Select the kind of snippet you want to create:
To create a personal snippet: On the Snippets dashboard, click New snippet, or:
If you’re on a project’s page, select the plus icon () in the top navigation bar, and then select New snippet from the GitLab (GitLab SaaS) or Your Instance (self-managed) section of the same dropdown menu.
For all other pages, select the plus icon () in the top navigation bar, then select New snippet from the dropdown menu.
To create a project snippet: Go to your project’s page. Select the plus icon (), and then select New snippet from the This project section of the dropdown menu.
Add a Title and Description.
Name your File with an appropriate extension, such as example.rb or index.html. Filenames with appropriate extensions display syntax highlighting. Failure to add a filename can cause a known copy-pasting bug. If you don’t provide a filename, GitLab creates a name for you.
(Optional) Add multiple files to your snippet.
Select a visibility level, and select Create snippet.

After you create a snippet, you can still add more files to it. In GitLab versions 13.0 and later, snippets are versioned by default.

Discover snippets

To discover all snippets visible to you in GitLab, you can:

View all snippets visible to you: In the top navigation bar of your GitLab instance, go to More > Snippets to view your snippets dashboard.
Visit GitLab snippets for your snippets on GitLab.com.
Explore all public snippets: In the top navigation bar of your GitLab instance, go to More > Snippets and select Explore snippets to view all public snippets.
View a project’s snippets: In your project, go to Snippets.


Change default visibility of snippets
Project snippets are enabled and available by default. To change their default visibility:

In your project, go to Settings.
Expand the Visibility, project features, permissions section, and scroll to Snippets.
Toggle the default visibility, and select whether snippets can be viewed by everyone, or only project members.
Select Save changes.

Versioned snippets
Introduced in GitLab 13.0.

In GitLab versions 13.0 and later, snippets (both personal and project snippets) have version control enabled by default.

This means that all snippets get their own underlying repository initialized with a default branch at the moment the snippet is created. Whenever a change to the snippet is saved, a new commit to the default branch is recorded. Commit messages are automatically generated. The snippet’s repository has only one branch. You can’t delete this branch, or create other branches.

Existing snippets were automatically migrated in 13.0. Their current content was saved as the initial commit to the snippets’ repository.

Filenames

Snippets support syntax highlighting based on the filename and extension provided for them. While you can submit a snippet without a filename and extension, it needs a valid name so the content can be created as a file in the snippet’s repository.

If you don’t give a snippet a filename and extension, GitLab adds a filename in the format snippetfile<x>.txt where <x> represents a number added to the file, starting with 1. This number increments if you add more unnamed snippets.

When upgrading from an earlier version of GitLab to 13.0, existing snippets without a supported filename are renamed to a compatible format. For example, if the snippet’s filename is http://a-weird-filename.me it is changed to http-a-weird-filename-me to be included in the snippet’s repository. As snippets are stored by ID, changing their filenames breaks direct or embedded links to the snippet.


Add or remove multiple files
Introduced in GitLab 13.5.

A single snippet can support up to 10 files, which helps keep related files together, such as:

A snippet that includes a script and its output.
A snippet that includes HTML, CSS, and JavaScript code.
A snippet with a docker-compose.yml file and its associated .env file.
A gulpfile.js file and a package.json file, which together can be used to bootstrap a project and manage its dependencies.
If you need more than 10 files for your snippet, we recommend you create a wiki instead. Wikis are available for projects at all subscription levels, and groups for GitLab Premium.

Snippets with multiple files display a file count in the snippet list:
You can manage snippets with Git (because they’re versioned by a Git repository), through the Snippets API, and in the GitLab UI.

To add a new file to your snippet through the GitLab UI:

Go to your snippet in the GitLab UI.
Select Edit in the top right corner.
Select Add another file.
Add your content to the file in the form fields provided.
Select Save changes.
